and we start the recording now alright
hello everyone its 20th of October
it is the ipfs core implementations we
can sync again welcome back it's been so
long but you're all back I'm
particularly enjoying Dirk's
scenery in the background um cool all
right without further ado if you're here
please put your name on the attendees
list in the crypt pad I think Jim has
already pasted it in the chat Oh face it
here again just in case anyone missed it
be a name there if you're here and would
like to share an update then please add
it to the bottom there's a section
called weekly updates for async review
who will not go over these in the
meeting but if you put your update here
then people can review it asynchronously
at their leisure and possibly respond to
you because what happens after this
meeting is the notes get called
requested to a team management repo and
so we can follow up there so that's good
the other thing is we will go through
initiatives and things if you are part
of an initiative please maybe think of
some things that you might want to
update us on by the time we get through
to that bar and and we will talk about
them and update each other but yeah
welcome everyone we have a note-taker
Jimmer's note-taker thank you Jim and
let's get started so the initiatives
that go through the initiatives first
one up is the upgraded release process
there's not so much to update here from
the Jess universe I guess the the
release process has been upgraded and we
are making a few improvements to it as
we go along but we've gone out got a
couple of releases under our belt using
it which is super good news
Jess every first 0:39 was released last
week I think Friday I think so that's
super cool there's a blog post to check
it out Alex basically drove that one so
say say hi and thank you to Alex when
eunuchs get a chance and the other news
is that yeah we're so you know 30 nights
out we start on 40 and there's other
issue that so you can have a look if you
like and get involved with the planning
yeah and that's all I guess unless there
is some type EFS release process uses
now Stephen is shaking his head okay any
questions on release process for new
Vaughn all righty
next up we have upgrading testing infra
and process Jim would you like to give
us an update on that is there anything
to update yeah I've been working on it
all last week and also David he's been
putting together some test cases as well
as Derk Derk sort of just introducing
him to the project and he he's the
customer right yeah I think so you've
got some we've got some test cases and
sort of use bit swap just sort of like
hello world type of things and but
Burke's actually working on bit swap so
he's gonna actually like build a real
test with it and we're gonna work with
him to do that I'm working on some we
can I can build little sort of clusters
right now but there's a lot of sort of
manual steps to doing that so I've been
working on putting in some ansible
scripting to automate that so it should
be maybe not exactly one press one
button to start a new cluster but pretty
close and davines been working on
planning and figuring out like what the
test cases should be and next week we're
all going to get together in person and
have a sort of a hack week on it so that
should be fun
nice
very cool is there is that like a link
to a road map or something for test
ground that we can we can get on the
notes or something yeah I do believe
there's something in there's a road map
that David's been putting together in
the test ground before and I'll pick
that up and put it in the notes here
it sounds super cool really excited
about having a really solid testing
platform for big scale p2p testing all
right does anyone have any questions
about that before we move on okay cool
next up is subdomain gateway I don't
know why I always have the preview the
rendered thing and I'll could it make it
big and I always seem to just look at
the markdown which is that's why I take
so long
and yeah next up is the Serta McGary
Lydell hi I'm doing yeah so I guess two
updates one is the website I believe
Aldi or you created we've sort of like a
CID analyzer that website did not
support the p2p key multi colic so if
someone buys that CID you like PID
represented as CID there the website
returned error which was bad that's
fixed and there's like a link an example
of PID represented in CID in base 42 and
you can see on that website
all those segments are correctly because
it now yep and that was sort of a
website used in things like the p2p
specs and RFC zero zero zero one so it's
pretty good too
got that sorted out I believe only fixed
CI CD at some point so thanks for that
and our second update is I sort of
scratched this each of pure idea CID
support in jail and and a there's open
PR for a dating PID and I believe
actually dot plus - there's a
one-for-one method in multi other is
enough to bring the support to just ipfs
to the stage one from the pier I forgot
to link so i probably will add it here
maybe yep
so there's like a tracking issue and the
implementation of RFC 0:01
is split into two stages and the first
stage is basically just adding support
for cid representation without switching
the default and we for that we need to
switch chase ipfs to this new JSP ID the
parameters like a draft pure for that
the problem is this latest purity is as
requires like a secret factor and like
switching or all the crypto and key
management machine 'only p2p so I guess
the next step is to make a decision in
the last link I've posted in the J's API
first draft should we simply include
that in the asking a waiter factor or
should we like back port those changes
to old versions I would like to like
focus on icing so if I can help with
that I'd probably do that cuz I sort of
like started refactoring J said if I
sent that I realized oh I'm already like
doing this so I don't I don't want to
duplicate work so we probably need to
coordinate and the later I'd probably
sync with Stephen to sort of aligned
stage one between J's and go and I
looked at the Python version as well
because the similar fix for stage one
could be applied there not sure about
trust you did not look into that yet I
guess that's it
nice thank you I actually just today
because I was reviewing your poor
request on to J's PID I took that PID
and I put it into CID to ipfs thought IO
fully expecting it to blow up and it
didn't and I was so impressed so there's
there's a super good news and that was I
did not build that I think all he made
it good last but I think it existed
someone else built a version of it
before that but yes it's super useful
tool and that's about if you want to
inspect your see IDs and what they're
made of but yeah in terms of like the
async/await I think that's probably a
good plan I would let's sync off line
about like where you can be most useful
with that after them after the meeting
but yeah just to kind of reiterate the
what load was working on is a key
component of being able to switch the
v1c IDs because if you once the IDs
means that we can use base fetch to
encoded string see ideas which means
that they can be used in origins of URLs
because they're not they're not
case-sensitive and we need it for we
need it to happen in peer IDs because we
want to use I KN s and IP NS is
typically peer IDs so yet key component
really happy that it's being worked on
so thank you load all for the update
does anyone have any questions on that
before we head on
all right great
distribute signaling still on is still
on hold
I'm guessing somehow just IP NS is I
didn't watch you go around to give us
update is there an update to give no
never of them no Steven yeah they're not
too much on the IPS front there's some
types of things but basically I've been
moved to deal with other pressing things
since I guess will no longer be a fire
so cool it's not on here but there's
some brief things about I think I stock
performance which the thing it used to
be on something like this list moved off
it's not getting pick up again which
briefly is that and I can I'll copy
pasted it up in a minute
briefly is that a performance on Windows
works just fine as it turns out
but Linux is having some like Linux plus
ext4 plus Badgers having some quality
issues and it's unclear where in the
stack that fault lies if you care about
what we do about this
stay tuned nice thank you can you yeah
can you add a section to the to the dock
and then we can continue to talk about
it going forwards but yeah cool that
sounds fun alright so if there's no
questions on that or comments then we
will move on to things of moving
migration to multi hash keys in block
store Adam is not here which was fun
he has done a whole bunch of work
creating this new and migrator tool for
ips repos so that we can move repos
between versions in the browser as well
as in node and environments that's super
cool there was an initial PR which got
merged and then
then I only managed to review it after
that happened and then Adam very kindly
did another PR which I reviewed and
those since been merged so we're so that
all can now be released so the next step
is to include it in jazz IVFs so that
repo migrations can happen and that
unlocks us to doing it actually creating
migrations like moving the blocks core
keys to be using multi ashes instead of
CID said okay so we haven't actually
made this move yet we're just preparing
to live yes okay as to what make sure
coordinating this okay thank you
yeah I will I when we come to actually
when I review it the the work to change
the keys then I will make sure I kind of
sync with your or something to turn sure
we're doing the right thing and nothing
unexpected cool so what we got next IP
FS of amount before I move on anyone
questions on that no cool ipfs mount is
up next
and there's a demo of basic right
support who's fit that then can anyone
talk to that yeah this is a demo basic
right support for like this no using
nice is that using MF s or yes Willis
yeah is using of it whoa
it has 4 IP NS closer to write directing
us keys you sound about interesting okay
it's so weird about this yeah yeah okay
check that out alright any questions on
that one nice okay next up we have bit
swap and Dirk do you have an update for
writes yeah
so last week I kind of did some
experiments with a couple of ideas you
had for improving rate performance which
particularly interested in the Gateway
and in the end we ended up implementing
a solution so there's a link to appear
for that so I guess we're gonna try that
out in the on the gateways this week and
and then I'm also pretty much ready to
start code reviews for the proof of
concept I've been working on for bit
swap I want to also test it on test
ground in the meantime but there's some
parts of it that are unlikely to change
so I think we can start reviewing those
it's going to be a very very big Cody
with respect to testing and test grounds
and I'd like to get some input from from
some other people who have more
experience with our commits what behaves
in the real world just to you know
create some kind of like some some
real-world scenarios that include like
new things happening like timeouts and a
realistic ratio of live notes and dead
notes and I kind of think so that's
probably something we can talk about in
the test grand meeting tomorrow okay
thank you
when you say your proof of concepts are
ready for review is that I can ask for
people to come and review the code or
you need to review it all well I think
my first victim is gonna be Stephen and
I was probably I'll get him to look over
some bits of it but it's it's pretty
enormous I think maybe the way to go
will be to for us to to kind of like
churn through the first pass and then
I'll get other people to come and have a
look gotcha okay so that so the meeting
you were talking about is the test
ground we think yeah okay cool got it
all right that sounds interesting
any questions for con bits or updates
nice okay let's move on next up is the
long-running async/await reflector for
which there are many things now
depending on yeah I didn't personally
have an update on this this week I
paused on what I was doing due to other
things that I was working on so I don't
have an update but Jacob or Vasco would
you like to update us with what's
happening in the beauty world
yeah so we've got the internal crypto
refactor which will include plaintext to
update that is this should be done this
week and then machi mkg is working on a
sec io so I'll be helping support that
as well and then this week's going to
start on pure discovery and the circuit
relay refactor and then pub/sub is
Bosco's cranking away on all of those
and their various PRS are linked in that
pan that's it you're cranking freedom do
you feel like you're gonna be done next
week what everything no but yeah it's
slowly gonna the nice thing is we're
actually like because we've had to
refactor some significant things in the
p2p
we actually a lot of features that we've
been wanting for a while are getting
incorporated in the changes so there's a
lot more than just the async refactor
coming out so we should have something
very nice at the other end of this yeah
that was one of the things that I wanted
to I just wanted the async/await
refactor to really enable new things
that we've wanted to add for a long time
without having to make it really
difficult which is just like it should
just be
easy yeah yeah that's super exciting
very cool yeah what was it gonna say um
[Music]
it's gone never mind let's move on
unless there's anyone who have any other
questions or all things no okay does
anyone have any design review proposals
this week
I'm hoping to
to write up a kind of RFC for uniting
the files API finally and one that was
going to hopefully then circulate that
and get consensus for everyone on what
what to do and and then do it
so that was my task so hopefully next
week we might have something like that
to to look at anyone no one else has got
any design proposals or things they want
to talk about all right all right
Stephen sure thing
it's for the UNIX investors there's one
an open question so if you've seen this
back before it has this concept of
default metadata like looking at numbers
that mid Peter yeah I they came up with
MIDI 4-minute it doesn't really help
much even all I so the question is
should we just remove it if people could
look at that comment and just think
about it a bit they have a good I think
I think especially Alex he'll be back
tomorrow so hopefully he'll be able to
look at that whoever key ours this maybe
they can tag Alex in the in the request
and get him to look at it cool yeah
that's super exciting I looked at the
pull request and it feels really close
and then it it would be amazing to get
you next FS 1.5 out the door really
quickly and enable some awesome package
manager experiences
[Music]
you know I found out something okay so
if you ever asked I hadn't asked I
didn't make it to the to like planning
for this quarter because I was away so
like anything that kind of oh well after
a good conversation with dahveed in a
people manager situation we were we had
a great conversation and it prompted me
to kind of look at like the things that
are currently in flight well Jess I
professed but also to some extent go out
fest and what they depend on and just
look at the review the roadmap and where
we are and kind of just yeah I made a
graph using hack MD which is which has
this amazing kind of you can make graphs
in markdown which is mad for starters
but the point is it it's it's probably
healthy for us to just take a step back
and look at what other things are in
flight like it's really good that we're
working on some of these some of these
things to achieve what we said we do in
the roadmap there are many things in
flight and there is still a lot of stuff
we haven't covered but the things in
flight we don't have a lot time yet left
again yeah and I really want to get all
of them done it probably won't happen
but it's worth having a look at that
graph and and that issue just even just
to familiarize yourself with with what
is out there and everything what the
moving parts are and how they relate to
each other if only for your own
education so please take a look at that
issue and and you can comment or
whatever you you feel for that yeah
that's just my ask all right any
questions general questions we're nearly
out of time but not quite
yeah a brief question or just I guess
like food for thought for as we go
forward which is one of our DHT fixes is
going to be basically having nose
that think they're behind naps not tell
them not tell the people that they are
diable and part of the network this will
break people who use I can ask
internally and earth in offline networks
because I penis currently only uses the
DHT we have pub/sub fixes that will fix
this but it it's gonna like it's
currently under an experimental flag so
we should consider if we need to do
anything about that Steven - no no this
will be dialed they just won't join the
ght yeah and we do have two potential
fixes here world one is like try to see
like this every note is in the same that
just trim that HT anyways because you're
with an app for the fixtures talk about
it does have to th DS you have small THD
for your local net and then ADHD yeah
these are two fixes we proposed will see
if they you forget up releasing them in
time I like the idea of a local DHT is
there some links I can go and put my
opinions on there may not be and if not
then I will down that today and I'll
I'll put it in the in the issue wrap
what do know we'll call these TV the
same I was using mdns for the record
routing except meetings were you need a
key value store interface layer on top
of it so yeah
alternatively you could just use pub/sub
which will do the mdns thing and it will
work but it's behind the experimental
flag then that means it doesn't work by
default for people so Steven you did it
okay
you also need to pub/sub plus the what's
it called I dusted off whatever it is no
nothing I'm fine yeah
the position pops up stuff because
unique actually was like great feelings
have been published previously yeah but
that will land that will land at the
same time that the thing that breaks the
local DHT yes well good mm-hmm
and I was impulsive is probably a better
solution just because like this is not a
case research massive set of nodes
researching it very small seven it was
anymore fast answers so cool okay any
other comments or questions or things we
should cover before we head on off to
our the rest of our days I think that
was it wasn't it yeah cool we're done
thank you everybody for coming to this
exciting edition of the core
implementations weekly think and it's
been really nice seeing your faces again
and I hope to see them next week have a
fun week keep on IPF essing I bye